# RERI
UML, CML and EB estimators of Relative Excess Risk due to Interaction.

We provide self-defined R functions with respect to those three estimators in binary cases (when the data structure is 2 by 2 by 2 contingency table) and genneral cases.

In binary cases, functions add.uml(), add.cml(), add.eb() require inputs of eight numbers of each cell in the order of (# D=0,G=0,E=0), (# D=0,G=0,E=1),(# D=0,G=1,E=0), (# D=0,G=1,E=1),(# D=1,G=0,E=0),(# D=1,G=0,E=1), (#D=1,G=1,E=0), (# D=1,G=1,E=1). The functions will returen the estimated RERI ($RERI) and corresponding standard deviation($sd). Additionally in add.eb(), you can call add.eb()$pr to see the data-adaptive weight of the UML estimator within the EB estimator. Functions add.wald.uml(), add.wald.cml(), add.wald.eb() require the same input as add.uml(), and they return the value of test statistic($stat) and P value ($pvalue).

In general cases, The self-defined function RERI.test(G0,G1,E0,E1,data,response.var,snp.var,main.vars=NULL,int.vars=NULL,strata.var=NULL) requires loading package "CGEN", the input of the function is as same as "snp.logistic" except G0,G1,E0,E1, which denote the relative excess risk due to interaction when environmental risk factor changes from E0 to E1 and genetic risk factor changes from G0 to G1 but other covariates hold constant. In this version of code, the genetic risk factor is required to be binary and the environmental factor is required to be either binary or continuous (which means only one main effect coefficient). The function returns the point estimate, 95% CI and P value of three estimators and you can call them with RERI.test()$UML, RERI.test()$CML, RERI.test()$EB.
